---
id: 7779
title: Chile January 2016
date: 2016-01-26T14:42:37+00:00
author: Jorge Cortell
layout: post
guid: http://blog.cortell.net/?p=7779
permalink: /blog/2016/01/26/chile-january-2016/
categories:
  - General
  - "Life's pleasures"
  - Personal
---

  
On Wednesday, January 20th I flew to Miami, on the top floor of a double-decker plane, for a quick meeting at the airport. Unfortunately, and as usual, the delay of the aircraft, together with the immigration queue, and a traffic jam in which my client was caught, made the meeting impossible.
  
From Miami, I flew all night to Santiago de Chile.Arriving in Santiago, as always my good friend and distributor picked me up from the airport and took me to the hotel to check-in, shower and change to go to the first meeting. But to my surprise, the hotel did not let me check-in, because it was "too early". Luckily my distributor allowed me to shower in his office, for which I am extremely grateful. What a difference it makes to take a shower before a meeting, having flown all night!

Arriving in Santiago, as always my good friend and distributor picked me up from the airport and took me to the hotel to check-in, shower and change to go to the first meeting. But to my surprise, the hotel did not let me check-in, because it was "too early". Luckily my distributor allowed me to shower in his office, for which I am extremely grateful. What a difference it makes to take a shower before a meeting, having flown all night!The client meeting took place in the most luxurious office building in the most luxurious street in Santiago, right in front of the Spanish embassy.

The client meeting took place in the most luxurious office building in the most luxurious street in Santiago, right in front of the Spanish embassy.It seemed an exorbitant luxury that my client had the data center on the 18th floor of the building. But these people seem to be very professional and know what they do.

It seemed an exorbitant luxury that my client had the data center on the 18th floor of the building. But these people seem to be very professional and know what they do.The meeting was very good, and I was asked to continue the negotiations the following day.

The meeting was very good, and I was asked to continue the negotiations the following day.At night my friend invited me to dinner with his partners in a lovely restaurant called Ñuñoa, serving Chilean food, but imaginatively prepared and gourmet. I do not remember the name of the dishes or wine I had, but I can still remember the delicious taste of the whole dinner.

At night my friend invited me to dinner with his partners in a lovely restaurant called Ñuñoa, serving Chilean food, but imaginatively prepared and gourmet. I do not remember the name of the dishes or wine I had, but I can still remember the delicious taste of the whole dinner.

The next day, after suffering hours of the slowest hotel wifi connection I have ever endured (a speed test turned out 200kps), we continued the meeting, reaching an agreement of which I`m very proud because it is with the main telemedicine network in Latin America.

In the afternoon, after a series of eventualities with his flight, we met with a prominent doctor who wants to launch a telemedicine initiative with the Chilean Ministry of Health, and is also considering my company to carry out the project.

Another red-eye flight (this time in a brand new B787) led me to Dallas, where I had a lengthy connection (blessed be airport lounges), and then the flight that finally took me back home in London.